image -- In Docker, an image is a read-only template that contains a set of instructions for creating a container. It is a snapshot of a Docker container that includes everything needed to run an application, including the code, runtime, system tools, libraries, and settings.

containers -- are the isolated environments in which we can run our applications.Each container has an ID.

docker run hello-world ==> docker run the hello world image --> pulls the image from the docker file -->displays the latest hello world image downloaded.

docker run -it ubuntu ==> docker run in the interactive environment ubuntu -->same as above ie it downloads the ubuntu image.
-it --> interactive environment.meaning, we are inside the container.

checkout docherhub for the images.

docker images also contain the operating system files along with the dependancies to run the particular image.

we can directly download the image as well. ex: sudo docker pull mysql.

if we want to download the image of a particular version then
-sudo pull ubuntu:16.04

To check the containers that are running: sudo docker ps

sudo docker container ls : shows all the containers. 

sudo docker container exec -it 'container ID' bash --> the bash shell should be attached to the running container, so that we can go inside the container and we do our things.

to stop the container : sudo docker stop 'container ID'

sudo docker ps -a : shows the containers that are stopped.

sudo docker rm 'container ID' : removes the container.

sudo docker inspect 'container ID' : gives all the information about the container.
 
sudo docker logs 'container ID' : all the things that are output are mentioned here.

sudo docker container prune -f : deletes all the containers that are stopped.

sudo docker run alpine ping www.civo.com 

sudo docker run -d alpine ping url: d for detached i.e it runs in the background.

sudo docker run ubuntu Hey : prints Hey in the terminal.

sudo docker logs --since 5s f56b : shows the container with ID starting ;f56b' running from last 5 seconds 

sudo docker stop f56b : stops the container.

sudo docker rmi alpine -f : deletes the specified container.

sudo docker run -d -p 8080:80 nginx : this runs the nginx image on the local system. Nginx is a web server whose default port is 80.

Docker commit :

sudo docker run -it ubuntu
ls
touch names.txt
echo "Hey, my name is Akshay">>names.txt
cat names.txt -- displays Hey, my name is Akshay

to download ubuntu image that has names.txt -- we use docker commit.

sudo docker ps -a -- copy the id
sudo docker start d10c04316b79
sudo docker exec -it d10c04316b79 bash
ls -- shows names.txt present in it.

If we want to create image out of it then, we can use commit.

sudo docker commit -m "added names.txt file" d10c04316b79 names_ubuntu
here, -m -- message 
      names_ubuntu -- name given by us for the image to be created.
sudo docker images -- names_ubuntu will be present.

sudo docker run -it names_ubuntu

sudo docker images -q -- gives IDs of the images.

sudo docker rmi $(sudo docker images -q) -- removes all the images.

Layers : image is a collection of files.each file has a hash value.

Creating a Docker image :      
     
touch Dockerfile
vi Dockerfile

https://zaggle.lms.simplilearn.com/


Docker compose:
delete all images : sudo docker rm -f (docker image ls -q)
delete all the container : sudo docker rm -f $(docker container -aq)


yaml file 

yaml is prefered over json file here.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A container is a standardized unit of software development that holds everything that your software application requires to run. This includes relevant code, runtime, system tools, and system libraries. Containers are created from a read-only template that's called an image.

Let's break down Docker, Docker images, and Docker containers in simple terms:

Docker:

What it is: Docker is a platform for developing, shipping, and running applications in containers.
Why it's useful: It provides a consistent environment across different stages of the development lifecycle, from development to testing to production. This consistency helps eliminate the common problem of "it works on my machine" by packaging the application and its dependencies into a standardized unit called a container.
Docker Image:

What it is: A Docker image is like a snapshot or a template of a file system. It includes the application code, libraries, dependencies, and other settings needed for the application to run.
Why it's useful: Images are lightweight, portable, and can be shared. They ensure that your application runs consistently regardless of the environment it's deployed in. Images are created from a set of instructions written in a Dockerfile, which defines how the image should be built.
Docker Container:

What it is: A Docker container is an instance of a Docker image. It's a runnable environment that encapsulates an application and its dependencies.
Why it's useful: Containers provide a way to package and isolate applications, ensuring they run consistently across different environments. They are lightweight, start quickly, and can be easily stopped, started, or moved between different systems. Containers run in isolation from each other and from the host system, making them a secure and efficient way to deploy and manage applications.
In Simple Terms:

Imagine Docker as a Lunchbox:

Lunchbox (Docker): It holds your food (application) and keeps it organized. The lunchbox is your consistent way of carrying and storing your meal (application) wherever you go.
Docker Image is like a Recipe Card:

Recipe Card (Docker Image): It's a set of instructions that tells you how to make a particular dish (application). The recipe card ensures that anyone following it will make the same dish every time.
Docker Container is the Actual Meal:

Meal (Docker Container): It's the dish (application) prepared using the recipe card (Docker image). You can have multiple containers (meals) from the same recipe (image), and each container runs independently.
In summary, Docker allows you to package your application and its dependencies into a portable unit (image), and then you can run that unit as an isolated and consistent environment (container) wherever Docker is installed. This makes it easier to develop, test, and deploy applications across different systems.
